The last data
cleansing exercise we
will cover together
is de-duplicating.
This is a little different than
the past functions we covered,
because it is not a typed formula
that can reference our raw data.
As mentioned before, it is
a leading practice to keep
your raw data separate from
anything that you are
manually editing.
You can do this by just copying
and pasting into a separate tab,
or workbook in Excel,
and clearly labeling that data.
In this dataset, we have
been informed that there
may be an erroneous
duplicate entries.
To care this, first
I'm just going to
copy and paste
the table to the right,
so we have the original data
and our edited data separate.
I'll denote the table
on the left as raw,
and the table on the right as
edits made for our reference.
I'll select the table
on the right,
and click the "Data"
ribbon above,
and then click
"Remove Duplicates".
In the example we know that there
are identical duplicate entries,
so it's okay to keep all rows
checked and click "OK".
If we are reviewing
a dataset with
only two fields that
made up the primary key,
we can select one or two
of the columns and it will
ensure that we don't have
any duplicate values
on that primary key.
However, if you do this,
keep in mind that
Excel will choose
the first instance
of the primary key,
and everything after including
the extra columns
will be deleted.
We can see that all duplicates
were found and deleted,
so we have only unique rows
remaining in the table
on our right.